Adding calls cookbook section (#97)
fixie-ai/ultradox: callscookbook/calltransfer.mdx

---
title: 'Transferring Calls'
description: 'How to have your agent transfer the call to a human.'
icon: 'shuffle'
---

## Introduction

There are scenarios where your voice AI agent may need to transfer a call to a human agent or another system. This could be for:

- Escalating complex issues that require human intervention
- Transferring to specialized departments based on customer needs
- Handing off to human agents when callers specifically request it or are upset

## Implementing Call Transfers

To implement call transfers, we need to:

1. [**Create a Transfer Tool**](#step-1%3A-create-a-transfer-tool) → Create a custom tool that your Ultravox agent can use to trigger transfers.
1. [**Implement Tool Endpoint**](#step-2%3A-implement-tool-endpoint) → Set up an API endpoint to handle the transfer request.

> 1. [**Use Telephony Provider's API**](#step-3%3A-use-telephony-provider%E2%80%99s-api) → Utilize our telephony provider's API to perform the actual call transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [**Use Telephony Provider's API**](#step-3%3A-use-telephony-provider%E2%80%99s-api) → Utilize your telephony provider's API to perform the actual call transfer.
```

> 1. [**Track Active Calls**](#step-4%3A-track-active-calls) → Maintain a list of Ultravox call IDs and their corresponding call identifier for our telephony calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [**Track Active Calls**](#step-4%3A-track-active-calls) → Maintain a list of Ultravox call IDs and their corresponding call identifier for your telephony calls.
```

        "knownValue": "KNOWN_PARAM_CALL_ID"
      }
    ],
    "dynamicParameters": [
      {
        "name": "firstName",
        "location": "PARAMETER_LOCATION_BODY",
        "schema": {
          "description": "The caller's first name",
          "type": "string"
        },
        "required": true
      },
      {
        "name": "lastName",
        "location": "PARAMETER_LOCATION_BODY",
        "schema": {
          "description": "The caller's last name",
          "type": "string"
        },
        "required": true
      },
      {
        "name": "transferReason",
        "location": "PARAMETER_LOCATION_BODY",
        "schema": {
          "description": "The reason the call is being transferred.",
          "type": "string"
        },
        "required": true
      }
    ],
    "http": {
      "baseUrlPattern": "<YOUR_SERVER_URI>/transferCall",
      "httpMethod": "POST"
    }
  }
}
```

This configuration:
- Names the tool `transferCall`.
- Provides a description explaining when to use it. This description should be customized for your use case.
- Automatically includes the unique Ultravox Call ID for the current call and names it `callId`.

> - Collects caller information and transfer reason as dynamic parameters. These are optional and should be customized for your scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Collects caller information and transfer reason as dynamic parameters. These should be customized (or omitted) for your scenario.
```

(Calling them "optional" was confusing to me because you've marked them "required" in the code.)

- Defines the HTTP endpoint and method for the tool. This can also be implemented as a [client tool](/essentials/tools#server-vs-client-tools).

### Step 2: Implement Tool Endpoint
Next, create an API endpoint that will handle the transfer call tool request from your Ultravox agent. 

```js 
// Express.js example for exposing an HTTP tool
router.post('/transferCall', async (req, res) => {
  const { callId } = req.body;
  try {
    const result = await transferActiveCall(callId);
    res.json(result);
  } catch (error) {
    res.status(500).json(error);
  }
});
```

### Step 3: Use Telephony Provider's API

> Implement the function that uses our telephony provider's API to perform the actual call transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement the function that uses your telephony provider's API to perform the actual call transfer.
```

     * @param {string} destinationNumber - The phone number to transfer to (e.g., "+15551234567")
     * @returns {Object} Result of the transfer operation
     */
    async function transferActiveCall(ultravoxCallId, destinationNumber = "+15551234567") {
      try {
        const callData = activeCalls.get(ultravoxCallId);
        if (!callData || !callData.twilioCallSid) {
          throw new Error('Call not found or invalid CallSid');
        }

        // Initialize Twilio client
        const twilio = require('twilio');
        const client = twilio(process.env.TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID, process.env.TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN);

        const twiml = new twilio.twiml.VoiceResponse();
        twiml.dial().number(destinationNumber);

        // Update the active call with the new TwiML
        const updatedCall = await client.calls(callData.twilioCallSid)
          .update({
            twiml: twiml.toString()
          });

        return {
          status: 'success',
          message: 'Call transfer initiated',
          callDetails: updatedCall
        };

      } catch (error) {
        console.error('Error transferring call:', error);

>         throw {

Reviewer: nit: Throwing an object is pretty weird.

Author: yeah modified to throw the original error

          status: 'error',
          message: 'Failed to transfer call',
          error: error.message
        };
      }
    }
    ```
  </Tab>

>   <Tab title="Plivo">

Reviewer: I assume you tested all these?
